---
Alias: LeNet5
title: Gradient-based learning applied to document recognition
authors:
- Yann LeCun
- L. Bottou
- Yoshua Bengio
- P. Haffner
fieldsOfStudy:
- Computer Science
filesize_readable: 960.4 KB
meta_key: 1998-lenet5
meta_relpath: paper-extra-data/pdf-meta/1998-lenet5.yaml
numCitedBy: 35423
pdf_relpath: paper-repo/pdfs/1998-LeNet5.pdf
reading_status: done
ref_count: 246
tags:
- deep-learning-model
- gen-from-ref
- paper
url_slug: 1998-LeNet5
venue: Proc. IEEE
year: 1998
---

[pdf(local)](../../paper-repo/pdfs/1998-LeNet5.pdf)

# Gradient-based learning applied to document recognition

## Abstract

Multilayer neural networks trained with the back-propagation algorithm constitute the best example of a successful gradient based learning technique. Given an appropriate network architecture, gradient-based learning algorithms can be used to synthesize a complex decision surface that can classify high-dimensional patterns, such as handwritten characters, with minimal preprocessing. This paper reviews various methods applied to handwritten character recognition and compares them on a standard handwritten digit recognition task. Convolutional neural networks, which are specifically designed to deal with the variability of 2D shapes, are shown to outperform all other techniques. Real-life document recognition systems are composed of multiple modules including field extraction, segmentation recognition, and language modeling. A new learning paradigm, called graph transformer networks (GTN), allows such multimodule systems to be trained globally using gradient-based methods so as to minimize an overall performance measure. Two systems for online handwriting recognition are described. Experiments demonstrate the advantage of global training, and the flexibility of graph transformer networks. A graph transformer network for reading a bank cheque is also described. It uses convolutional neural network character recognizers combined with global training techniques to provide record accuracy on business and personal cheques. It is deployed commercially and reads several million cheques per day.

## Paper References

1. Handwritten Digit Recognition Using K Nearest-Neighbor, Radial-Basis Function, and Backpropagation Neural Networks
2. Comparing different neural network architectures for classifying handwritten digits
3. Connectionist architectural learning for high performance character and speech recognition
4. A system for the off-line recognition of handwritten text
5. Distortion Invariant Object Recognition in the Dynamic Link Architecture
6. Face recognition - a convolutional neural-network approach
7. A connectionist recognizer for on-line cursive handwriting recognition
8. Neural networks for speech and sequence recognition
9. Multi-Digit Recognition Using a Space Displacement Neural Network
10. Shortest path segmentation - a method for training a neural network to recognize character strings
11. Integrated Segmentation and Recognition of Hand-Printed Numerals
12. Connectionist Speech Recognition - A Hybrid Approach
13. Speaker-independent isolated digit recognition - Multilayer perceptrons vs. Dynamic time warping
14. Improving Performance in Neural Networks Using a Boosting Algorithm
15. Reading handwritten digits - a ZIP code recognition system
16. Phoneme recognition using time-delay neural networks
17. Handwritten Digit Recognition with a Back-Propagation Network
18. Efficient Pattern Recognition Using a New Transformation Distance
19. Training support vector machines - an application to face detection
20. Image Segmentation and Recognition
21. Backpropagation Applied to Handwritten Zip Code Recognition
22. Recognition-Based Segmentation of On-Line Hand-Printed Words
23. Centered-Object Integrated Segmentation and Recognition of Overlapping Handprinted Characters
24. Discriminative feature and model design for automatic speech recognition
25. Speaker-independent word recognition using dynamic programming neural networks
26. Design of a neural network character recognizer for a touch terminal
27. LeRec - A NN/HMM Hybrid for On-Line Handwriting Recognition
28. Combining TDNN and HMM in a hybrid system for improved continuous-speech recognition
29. Comparison of learning algorithms for handwritten digit recognition
30. Improving the Accuracy and Speed of Support Vector Machines
31. [A training algorithm for optimal margin classifiers](1992-a-training-algorithm-for-optimal-margin-classifiers)
32. Discriminative utterance verification for connected digits recognition
33. Solving Multiclass Learning Problems via Error-Correcting Output Codes
34. Discriminative learning for minimum error classification [pattern recognition
35. Links Between Markov Models and Multilayer Perceptrons
36. High-Performance Reading Machines
37. Connectionist Viterbi training - a new hybrid method for continuous speech recognition
38. Input-output HMMs for sequence processing
39. Efficient Training of Feed-Forward Neural Networks
40. Neural network-based face detection
41. Learning Process in an Asymmetric Threshold Network
42. Local Learning Algorithms
43. Combining hidden Markov model and neural network classifiers
44. An analog neural network processor with programmable topology
45. Speech recognition with continuous-parameter hidden Markov models
46. Word normalization for online handwritten word recognition
47. Word normalization for on-line handwritten word recognition
48. Multiresolution neural networks for omnifont character recognition
49. Global optimization of a neural network-hidden Markov model hybrid
50. Alpha-nets - A recurrent 'neural' network architecture with a hidden Markov model interpretation
51. An original approach for the localization of objects in images
52. A Rational Design for a Weighted Finite-State Transducer Library
53. Learning long-term dependencies with gradient descent is difficult
54. A Multifont Word Recognition System for Postal Address Reading
55. Efficient Parallel Learning Algorithms for Neural Networks
56. Neural Network - Gaussian Mixture Hybrid for Speech Recognition or Density Estimation
57. A Learning Algorithm for Boltzmann Machines
58. Signature Verification Using A Siamese Time Delay Neural Network
59. The State of the Art in Online Handwriting Recognition
60. A Theory of Adaptive Pattern Classifiers
61. Multi-State Time Delay Neural Networks for Continuous Speech Recognition
62. An EM Algorithm for Asynchronous Input/Output Hidden Markov Models
63. Application of the ANNA neural network chip to high-speed character recognition
64. Cursive script recognition applied to the processing of bank cheques
65. Multi-State Time Delay Networks for Continuous Speech Recognition
66. Speech Recognition by Composition of Weighted Finite Automata
67. A Convolutional Neural Network Hand Tracker
68. First- and Second-Order Methods for Learning - Between Steepest Descent and Newton's Method
69. Postal Address Block Location Using a Convolutional Locator Network
70. Statistical mechanics of learning from examples.
71. Weighted Rational Transductions and their Application to Human Language Processing
72. Learning Curves - Asymptotic Values and Rate of Convergence
73. Neocognitron - A new algorithm for pattern recognition tolerant of deformations and shifts in position
74. Perception of multiple objects - a connectionist approach
75. Finite-State Transducers in Language and Speech Processing
76. Fast neural net simulation with a DSP processor array
77. Approximation by superpositions of a sigmoidal function
78. Measuring the VC-Dimension of a Learning Machine
79. Numerical Recipes in C - The Art of Sci-entific Computing
80. Eigenvalues of covariance matrices - Application to neural-network learning.
81. Pattern classification and scene analysis
82. Numerical Recipes - The Art of Scientific Computing
83. Receptive fields, binocular interaction and functional architecture in the cat's visual cortex
84. An Input Output HMM Architecture
85. Original approach for the localisation of objects in images
86. Automatic processing of information on cheques
87. Error bounds for convolutional codes and an asymptotically optimum decoding algorithm
88. Dynamics of On-Line Gradient Descent Learning for Multilayer Neural Networks
89. [Statistical learning theory](1998-statistical-learning-theory)
90. Maximum mutual information estimation of hidden Markov model parameters for speech recognition
91. Learning and relearning in Boltzmann machines
92. A Framework for the Cooperation of Learning Algorithms
93. A Tutorial on Hidden Markov Models and Selected Applications
94. Speech recognition
95. The Nature Of Statistical Learning Theory
96. Foundations of the theory of learning systems
97. Overview and Synthesis
98. Adaptation and learning in automatic systems
99. A tutorial on Hidden Markov Models
100. Handwritten Digit Recognition - Applications of Neural Net Chips and Automatic Learning
101. PhD thesis - Modeles connexionnistes de l'apprentissage (connectionist learning models)
102. Learning processes in an asymmetric threshold network
103. Une procedure d'apprentissage pour reseau a seuil asymmetrique (A learning scheme for asymmetric threshold networks)
104. A theoretical framework for back-propagation
105. A time delay neural network architecture for speech recognition
106. Generalization and network design strategies
107. Probabilistic Interpretation of Feedforward Classification Network Outputs, with Relationships to Statistical Pattern Recognition
108. OVERVIEW AND SYNTHESIS OF ON-LINE CURSIVE HANDWRITING RECOGNITION TECHNIQUES
109. On-line handwriting recognition with neural networks - Spatial representation versus temporal representation
110. Improving the convergence of back-propagation learning with second-order methods
111. Applied optimal control
112. Time-delay neural networks embedding time alignment - a performance analysis
113. Connectionist speech recognition with a global MMI algorithm
114. Off Line Recognition of Handwritten Postal Words Using Neural Networks
115. Learning internal representations by error propagation
116. Statistical pattern recognition with neural networks - benchmarking studies
117. The State of the Art in On-Line Handwriting Recognition
118. State of the Art
119. A Theoretical Framework for Back-Propagation
