---
title: Deep Captioning with Multimodal Recurrent Neural Networks (m-RNN)
authors:
- Junhua Mao
- W. Xu
- Yi Yang
- Jiang Wang
- A. Yuille
fieldsOfStudy:
- Computer Science
meta_key: 2015-deep-captioning-with-multimodal-recurrent-neural-networks-m-rnn
numCitedBy: 1011
reading_status: TBD
ref_count: 55
tags:
- gen-from-ref
- other-default
- paper
urls:
- https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Deep-Captioning-with-Multimodal-Recurrent-Neural-Mao-Xu/54b2b6f35f1b5704dddfaa3a137a2f4ad3dfe745?sort=total-citations
venue: ICLR
year: 2015
---

[semanticscholar url](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Deep-Captioning-with-Multimodal-Recurrent-Neural-Mao-Xu/54b2b6f35f1b5704dddfaa3a137a2f4ad3dfe745?sort=total-citations)

# Deep Captioning with Multimodal Recurrent Neural Networks (m-RNN)

## Abstract

In this paper, we present a multimodal Recurrent Neural Network (m-RNN) model for generating novel image captions. It directly models the probability distribution of generating a word given previous words and an image. Image captions are generated by sampling from this distribution. The model consists of two sub-networks: a deep recurrent neural network for sentences and a deep convolutional network for images. These two sub-networks interact with each other in a multimodal layer to form the whole m-RNN model. The effectiveness of our model is validated on four benchmark datasets (IAPR TC-12, Flickr 8K, Flickr 30K and MS COCO). Our model outperforms the state-of-the-art methods. In addition, we apply the m-RNN model to retrieval tasks for retrieving images or sentences, and achieves significant performance improvement over the state-of-the-art methods which directly optimize the ranking objective function for retrieval. The project page of this work is: www.stat.ucla.edu/~junhua.mao/m-RNN.html .

## Paper References

1. Explain Images with Multimodal Recurrent Neural Networks
2. Language Models for Image Captioning - The Quirks and What Works
3. Learning a Recurrent Visual Representation for Image Caption Generation
4. [Unifying Visual-Semantic Embeddings with Multimodal Neural Language Models](2014-unifying-visual-semantic-embeddings-with-multimodal-neural-language-models)
5. [Sequence to Sequence Learning with Neural Networks](2014-sequence-to-sequence-learning-with-neural-networks)
6. [Show and tell - A neural image caption generator](2015-show-and-tell-a-neural-image-caption-generator)
7. [Deep Visual-Semantic Alignments for Generating Image Descriptions](2017-deep-visual-semantic-alignments-for-generating-image-descriptions)
8. [Long-term recurrent convolutional networks for visual recognition and description](2015-long-term-recurrent-convolutional-networks-for-visual-recognition-and-description)
9. [From captions to visual concepts and back](2015-from-captions-to-visual-concepts-and-back)
10. [ImageNet classification with deep convolutional neural networks](2012-alexnet.md)
11. Grounded Compositional Semantics for Finding and Describing Images with Sentences
12. Multimodal Neural Language Models
13. [Learning Phrase Representations using RNN Encoder-Decoder for Statistical Machine Translation](2014-learning-phrase-representations-using-rnn-encoder-decoder-for-statistical-machine-translation)
14. Deep Fragment Embeddings for Bidirectional Image Sentence Mapping
15. Framing Image Description as a Ranking Task - Data, Models and Evaluation Metrics (Extended Abstract)
16. [Very Deep Convolutional Networks for Large-Scale Image Recognition](2014-vggnet.md)
17. [Multimodal learning with deep Boltzmann machines](2012-multimodal-learning-with-deep-boltzmann-machines)
18. [DeViSE - A Deep Visual-Semantic Embedding Model](2013-devise-a-deep-visual-semantic-embedding-model)
19. [Recurrent neural network based language model](2010-recurrent-neural-network-based-language-model)
20. [Recurrent Continuous Translation Models](2013-recurrent-continuous-translation-models)
21. Learning cross-modality similarity for multinomial data
22. [Rich Feature Hierarchies for Accurate Object Detection and Semantic Segmentation](2014-rich-feature-hierarchies-for-accurate-object-detection-and-semantic-segmentation)
23. [Extensions of recurrent neural network language model](2011-extensions-of-recurrent-neural-network-language-model)
24. [CIDEr - Consensus-based image description evaluation](2015-cider-consensus-based-image-description-evaluation)
25. Choosing Linguistics over Vision to Describe Images
26. The IAPR TC-12 Benchmark - A New Evaluation Resource for Visual Information Systems
27. [Distributed Representations of Words and Phrases and their Compositionality](2013-distributed-representations-of-words-and-phrases-and-their-compositionality)
28. Every Picture Tells a Story - Generating Sentences from Images
29. [Long Short-Term Memory](1997-long-short-term-memory)
30. TreeTalk - Composition and Compression of Trees for Image Descriptions
31. Collecting Image Annotations Using Amazon's Mechanical Turk
32. Learning representations by back-propagating errors
33. Three new graphical models for statistical language modelling
34. Exploring Nearest Neighbor Approaches for Image Captioning
35. [Microsoft COCO - Common Objects in Context](2014-microsoft-coco-common-objects-in-context)
36. [Microsoft COCO Captions - Data Collection and Evaluation Server](2015-microsoft-coco-captions-data-collection-and-evaluation-server)
37. [Under Review as a Conference Paper at Iclr 2017 Delving into Transferable Adversarial Ex- Amples and Black-box Attacks](2016-under-review-as-a-conference-paper-at-iclr-2017-delving-into-transferable-adversarial-ex-amples-and-black-box-attacks)
38. Multiple Instance Metric Learning from Automatically Labeled Bags of Faces
39. [ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge](2015-imagenet-large-scale-visual-recognition-challenge)
40. Finding Structure in Time
41. Baby Talk - Understanding and Generating Image Descriptions
42. From Image Annotation to Image Description
43. Midge - Generating Image Descriptions From Computer Vision Detections
44. [Rectified Linear Units Improve Restricted Boltzmann Machines](2010-rectified-linear-units-improve-restricted-boltzmann-machines)
45. [From image descriptions to visual denotations - New similarity metrics for semantic inference over event descriptions](2014-from-image-descriptions-to-visual-denotations-new-similarity-metrics-for-semantic-inference-over-event-descriptions)
46. [Bleu - a Method for Automatic Evaluation of Machine Translation](2002-bleu-a-method-for-automatic-evaluation-of-machine-translation)
47. [Efficient BackProp](2012-efficient-backprop)
48. Learning Like a Child - Fast Novel Visual Concept Learning from Sentence Descriptions of Images
49. Matching Words and Pictures
