---
title: CIDEr - Consensus-based image description evaluation
authors:
- Ramakrishna Vedantam
- C. L. Zitnick
- Devi Parikh
fieldsOfStudy:
- Computer Science
meta_key: 2015-cider-consensus-based-image-description-evaluation
numCitedBy: 2185
reading_status: TBD
ref_count: 54
tags:
- gen-from-ref
- other-default
- paper
venue: 2015 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)
year: 2015
---

# CIDEr - Consensus-based image description evaluation

## Abstract

Automatically describing an image with a sentence is a long-standing challenge in computer vision and natural language processing. Due to recent progress in object detection, attribute classification, action recognition, etc., there is renewed interest in this area. However, evaluating the quality of descriptions has proven to be challenging. We propose a novel paradigm for evaluating image descriptions that uses human consensus. This paradigm consists of three main parts: a new triplet-based method of collecting human annotations to measure consensus, a new automated metric that captures consensus, and two new datasets: PASCAL-50S and ABSTRACT-50S that contain 50 sentences describing each image. Our simple metric captures human judgment of consensus better than existing metrics across sentences generated by various sources. We also evaluate five state-of-the-art image description approaches using this new protocol and provide a benchmark for future comparisons. A version of CIDEr named CIDEr-D is available as a part of MS COCO evaluation server to enable systematic evaluation and benchmarking.

## Paper References

1. Framing Image Description as a Ranking Task - Data, Models and Evaluation Metrics (Extended Abstract)
2. Comparing Automatic Evaluation Measures for Image Description
3. Choosing Linguistics over Vision to Describe Images
4. ImageCLEF - Experimental Evaluation in Visual Information Retrieval
5. [Microsoft COCO - Common Objects in Context](2014-microsoft-coco-common-objects-in-context)
6. [Show and tell - A neural image caption generator](2015-show-and-tell-a-neural-image-caption-generator)
7. Learning a Recurrent Visual Representation for Image Caption Generation
8. Relative attributes
9. Composing Simple Image Descriptions using Web-scale N-grams
10. [ImageNet - A large-scale hierarchical image database](2009-imagenet-a-large-scale-hierarchical-image-database)
11. See No Evil, Say No Evil - Description Generation from Densely Labeled Images
12. Image Description using Visual Dependency Representations
13. Im2Text - Describing Images Using 1 Million Captioned Photographs
14. Translating Video Content to Natural Language Descriptions
15. Collecting Image Annotations Using Amazon's Mechanical Turk
16. Learning to detect unseen object classes by between-class attribute transfer
17. Every Picture Tells a Story - Generating Sentences from Images
18. Bringing Semantics into Focus Using Visual Abstraction
19. Understanding and predicting importance in images
20. Corpus-Guided Sentence Generation of Natural Images
21. Baby Talk - Understanding and Generating Image Descriptions
22. Deep Fragment Embeddings for Bidirectional Image Sentence Mapping
23. Baby talk - Understanding and generating simple image descriptions
24. [Microsoft COCO Captions - Data Collection and Evaluation Server](2015-microsoft-coco-captions-data-collection-and-evaluation-server)
25. Recognition using visual phrases
26. Explain Images with Multimodal Recurrent Neural Networks
27. [A taxonomy and evaluation of dense two-frame stereo correspondence algorithms](2001-a-taxonomy-and-evaluation-of-dense-two-frame-stereo-correspondence-algorithms)
28. [Object Detection with Discriminatively Trained Part Based Models](2009-object-detection-with-discriminatively-trained-part-based-models)
29. Learning to Rank Using High-Order Information
30. [Long-term recurrent convolutional networks for visual recognition and description](2015-long-term-recurrent-convolutional-networks-for-visual-recognition-and-description)
31. [Unifying Visual-Semantic Embeddings with Multimodal Neural Language Models](2014-unifying-visual-semantic-embeddings-with-multimodal-neural-language-models)
32. [ROUGE - A Package for Automatic Evaluation of Summaries](2004-rouge-a-package-for-automatic-evaluation-of-summaries)
33. ImageCLEF, Experimental Evaluation in Visual Information Retrieval
34. Action recognition from a distributed representation of pose and appearance
35. Beyond Nouns - Exploiting Prepositions and Comparative Adjectives for Learning Visual Classifiers
36. Adaptively Learning the Crowd Kernel
37. [A database of human segmented natural images and its application to evaluating segmentation algorithms and measuring ecological statistics](2001-a-database-of-human-segmented-natural-images-and-its-application-to-evaluating-segmentation-algorithms-and-measuring-ecological-statistics)
38. [Distributed Representations of Words and Phrases and their Compositionality](2013-distributed-representations-of-words-and-phrases-and-their-compositionality)
39. [Bleu - a Method for Automatic Evaluation of Machine Translation](2002-bleu-a-method-for-automatic-evaluation-of-machine-translation)
40. Understanding inverse document frequency - on theoretical arguments for IDF
41. [Meteor Universal - Language Specific Translation Evaluation for Any Target Language](2014-meteor-universal-language-specific-translation-evaluation-for-any-target-language)
42. Utility data annotation with Amazon Mechanical Turk
43. Re-evaluating the Role of Bleu in Machine Translation Research
44. The physics of optimal decision making - a formal analysis of models of performance in two-alternative forced-choice tasks.
45. [METEOR - An Automatic Metric for MT Evaluation with Improved Correlation with Human Judgments](2005-meteor-an-automatic-metric-for-mt-evaluation-with-improved-correlation-with-human-judgments)
46. Midge - Generating Descriptions of Images
47. [The PASCAL Visual Object Classes Challenge](2006-the-pascal-visual-object-classes-challenge)
48. See no evil.
49. [WordNet - A Lexical Database for English](1992-wordnet-a-lexical-database-for-english)
50. Evaluating Content Selection in Summarization - The Pyramid Method
