---
title: RACE - Large-scale ReAding Comprehension Dataset From Examinations
authors:
- Guokun Lai
- Qizhe Xie
- Hanxiao Liu
- Yiming Yang
- E. Hovy
fieldsOfStudy:
- Computer Science
meta_key: 2017-race-large-scale-reading-comprehension-dataset-from-examinations
numCitedBy: 707
reading_status: TBD
ref_count: 19
tags:
- gen-from-ref
- other-default
- paper
urls:
- https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/RACE:-Large-scale-ReAding-Comprehension-Dataset-Lai-Xie/636a79420d838eabe4af7fb25d6437de45ab64e8?sort=total-citations
venue: EMNLP
year: 2017
---

# RACE - Large-scale ReAding Comprehension Dataset From Examinations

## Abstract

We present RACE, a new dataset for benchmark evaluation of methods in the reading comprehension task. Collected from the English exams for middle and high school Chinese students in the age range between 12 to 18, RACE consists of near 28,000 passages and near 100,000 questions generated by human experts (English instructors), and covers a variety of topics which are carefully designed for evaluating the students’ ability in understanding and reasoning. In particular, the proportion of questions that requires reasoning is much larger in RACE than that in other benchmark datasets for reading comprehension, and there is a significant gap between the performance of the state-of-the-art models (43%) and the ceiling human performance (95%). We hope this new dataset can serve as a valuable resource for research and evaluation in machine comprehension. The dataset is freely available at http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~glai1/data/race/ and the code is available at https://github.com/qizhex/RACE_AR_baselines.

## Paper References

1. [SQuAD - 100,000+ Questions for Machine Comprehension of Text](2016-squad-100-000-questions-for-machine-comprehension-of-text)
2. MS MARCO - A Human Generated MAchine Reading COmprehension Dataset
3. MCTest - A Challenge Dataset for the Open-Domain Machine Comprehension of Text
4. A Thorough Examination of the CNN/Daily Mail Reading Comprehension Task
5. Embracing data abundance - BookTest Dataset for Reading Comprehension
6. [TriviaQA - A Large Scale Distantly Supervised Challenge Dataset for Reading Comprehension](2017-triviaqa-a-large-scale-distantly-supervised-challenge-dataset-for-reading-comprehension)
7. Overview of CLEF QA Entrance Exams Task 2014
8. Who did What - A Large-Scale Person-Centered Cloze Dataset
9. [The Goldilocks Principle - Reading Children's Books with Explicit Memory Representations](2016-the-goldilocks-principle-reading-children-s-books-with-explicit-memory-representations)
10. Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network
11. [Teaching Machines to Read and Comprehend](2015-teaching-machines-to-read-and-comprehend)
12. Gated-Attention Readers for Text Comprehension
13. Question Answering via Integer Programming over Semi-Structured Knowledge
14. Overview of the NTCIR-11 QA-Lab Task
15. [GloVe - Global Vectors for Word Representation](2014-glove-global-vectors-for-word-representation)
16. [Bleu - a Method for Automatic Evaluation of Machine Translation](2002-bleu-a-method-for-automatic-evaluation-of-machine-translation)
17. Semi-Supervised QA with Generative Domain-Adaptive Nets
18. Automatic Evaluation of Summaries Using N-gram Co-occurrence Statistics
19. [NewsQA - A Machine Comprehension Dataset](2017-newsqa-a-machine-comprehension-dataset)
